Yugabyte Platform GKE app (#1)
yugabyte/yugabyte-platform-gke-app: README.md

# Overview

Yugabyte Platform gives you the simplicity and support to deliver a private
database-as-a-service (DBaaS) at scale. Use Yugabyte Platform to deploy
YugabyteDB across any cloud anywhere in the world with a few clicks, simplify
day 2 operations through automation, and get the services needed to realize
business outcomes with the database.

## About Google Click to Deploy

> Popular open stacks on Kubernetes packaged by Google.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About Google Click to Deploy

Popular application stacks on Kubernetes packaged by Google.
```

command:

```shell
kubectl apply -f "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/marketplace-k8s-app-tools/master/crd/app-crd.yaml"
```

You need to run this command once.

The Application resource is defined by the [Kubernetes
SIG-apps](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-apps)
community. The source code can be found on
[github.com/kubernetes-sigs/application](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/application).

### Install the Application

Navigate to the `yugabyte-platform-gke-app` directory.

```shell
cd yugabyte-platform-gke-app
```

#### Configure the app with environment variables

Choose an instance name and namespace for the app.

```shell
export APP_INSTANCE_NAME=yugabyte-platform
export NAMESPACE=test-ns
```

Configure the container images.

```shell
export TAG=<TAG>
export IMAGE_YUGABYTE_PLATFORM_REPO="marketplace.gcr.io/google/yugabyte-platform"
```

#### Create namespace in your Kubernetes cluster

If you use a different namespace than `test-ns`, run the command below to create
a new namespace:

```shell
kubectl create namespace "$NAMESPACE"
```

#### Create the Service Account

> Follow the [link](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/) to know more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Configure the Kubernetes cloud provider in Yugabyte Platform](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/set-up-cloud-provider/kubernetes/) document to know more.
```

  --set image.prometheus.registry="${IMAGE_YUGABYTE_PLATFORM_REPO}" \
  --set image.prometheus.name="prometheus" \
  --set image.prometheus.tag="${TAG}" \
  --set image.nginx.registry="${IMAGE_YUGABYTE_PLATFORM_REPO}" \
  --set image.nginx.name="nginx" \
  --set image.nginx.tag="${TAG}" \
  --set yugaware.serviceAccount="${SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" \
  > "${APP_INSTANCE_NAME}_manifest.yaml"
```

#### Apply the manifest to your Kubernetes cluster
Use kubectl to apply the manifest to your Kubernetes cluster. This installation creates:

- An Application resource, which collects all the deployment resources into one logical entity.
- A PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim.
- A StatefulSet.
- A Services, which expose Yugabyte Platform UI on 80 for non-TLS and 443 for TLS).

```shell
kubectl apply -f "${APP_INSTANCE_NAME}_manifest.yaml" --namespace "${NAMESPACE}"
```

#### View the app in the Google Cloud Console

To get the Console URL for your app, run the following command:

```shell
echo "https://console.cloud.google.com/kubernetes/application/${ZONE}/${CLUSTER}/${NAMESPACE}/${APP_INSTANCE_NAME}"
```

To view your app, open the URL in your browser.

# Backup and Restore

> Follow the [link](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-k8s/) to know more about it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Back Up and Restore Yugabyte Platform on Kubernetes ](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/administer-yugabyte-platform/back-up-restore-k8s/) document to know more. 
```

Usually it is good to clearly tell the reader what that URL is about.

# Basic Usage

## Access the Yugabyte Platform UI

Get the external endpoint from application page in the Google Cloud Console.

> Follow the [link](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/) to know more about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Configure Yugabyte Platform](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/configure-yugabyte-platform/) documentation section to know more about it.
```

# Uninstalling the Application

## Using the Google Cloud Platform Console

1. In the Cloud Console, open Kubernetes Applications.
2. From the list of apps, choose your app installation.
3. On the Application Details page, click Delete.

## Using the command line

### Delete the Yugabyte Platform App

```
kubectl delete -f ${APP_INSTANCE_NAME} --namespace $NAMESPACE
```

> 

Reviewer: We might need to add a section for PVC cleanup? A single command to delete the PVC should be enough for now.

> Cleaning up any resources that might be intentionally orphaned, such as PersistentVolumeClaims.

https://cloud.google.com/marketplace/docs/partners/kubernetes/create-app-package#user-guide
